[SOUND] Custom menus,
those are nice, right.
Let's do them.
[MUSIC]
Hey, welcome back.
In this lecture, we're gonna be
playing around with custom menus.
And the perfect example of how
to show you how to do this
is right here in the footer.
We have a menu that we
actually hard coded.
It's static, and that's not awesome,
because what if we have new pages?
What if we add new pages?
What if we wanna update the footer and
we wanna remove this menu altogether,
and we wanna put something else there?
Maybe we have other pages
with different menus.
Hard coding is not the way to go.
Using custom menus is the absolute
way to go and it's super easy.
So, let me show you.
First, what you're gonna do is head back
to your Appearance and then click Menus.
Here is the menu section.
Right here you can edit your menus,
manage the locations, create menus add
the menu structure, so on an so forth.
You can do so much here with your menus.
It's awesome.
So right here we have our main menu and we
have basically the four links that we want
in that main navigation menu and we're
automatically adding new top level pages.
We wanna add a new menu, so
create a new menu right here, and
let's call this one Footer Menu.
And I'm gonna create that menu.
And basically what we wanna do here is,
well in this case it's pretty simple,
it's basically all the same pages, but
we wanna add one extra link called sign up
now, and
there is no page called sign up now.
So, this is how we're
gonna go about doing that.
Let's add all the pages first.
There we go.
We're going to add the right home blog,
resources, and contact, and then we
have one more link that is sign up now.
What we're going to do here is just
click on links down here and then URL.
This is where you're going to put URL for
an external link.
So in this case I would
put a link to the course
where you could sign up to the course.
But for now I'm just going to put
My website, bradhussey.ca, and
once the course is live, I'll actually put
the real link so that it actually works.
Sign Up Now, and Add to Menu,
and there we go.
Now if I save this,
I have a new menu called Footer Menu.
So I have the main menu and footer menu.
And you can see right here,
this says primary menu, beside main menu.
And if you look down here, menu settings,
there's a section here called theme
locations, and there's only primary menu.
So that means our theme only has one menu
registered to be able to use in the theme.
We need to be able to have
another location, and
it needs to be for the footer.
So we need to do that,
otherwise we can't use this menu, unless
you wanted to set it as primary menu, but
we want another menu location, so
go back to your functions.php.
And in functions.php, just find menu.
And you can see here on line 43, this
theme uses wp_nav_menu() in one location.
Not anymore.
We're gonna register another one.
So register_nav_menus is the function
where you can register navigation menus,
as many as you desire.
So I'm gonna copy that first one and
paste it below.
So this is our primary menu and
we're just gonna create another one.
I'm gonna call it footer and
this will be called Footer Menu.
Now save that, go back here,
and refresh the menu.
So now we have two theme locations for
our menus.
And our footer menu I want that to be
in the footer menu theme location.
Now we're not done yet.
It's associated with that menu that
we registered in our functions but
we need to be able to
display it in our theme.
If you're forward thinking,
you'll know that we need to
be heading to our footer.php.
And down there is where we're going to add
our custom menu, right here in the nav.
So basically we're just gonna use the same
thing that we used in our header, and
I'll just show you real quick here.
We have the WordPress nav menu function.
So I'm just gonna copy that so
I don't have to retype a lot of stuff, and
we're just gonna change
a few sections in our array.
So go back to your footer now,
take note of the last list item here.
It has a class called sign up link.
Remember that.
We're gonna be using that.
Paste this.
Ok so we have WordPress nav menu, but
we're not gonna pull in our primary menu,
we need to pull in our footer menu.
The container's gonna be a nav
element 'cuz we want to use HTML 5.
The container class, we don't
actually need a container class here.
So I'm gonna remove that.
With the menu class I want
it to be an in-line list.
So list unstyled, I don't want
the bullets, this is a bootstrap style,
it's gonna add that to the menu,
and list in-line.
And just to show you,
I'm gonna copy that and
I'm gonna go back to the static version so
you can see what we're trying to achieve.
We've got a  and then we've got
an unordered list, and then list items,
and there are two classes,
list-unstyled and list-inline.
And the way I did that
is here in menu class,
that tags it,
those classes to the unordered list.
Go ahead and save that.
And head back here and refresh your site.
And so here you go this is
actually a dynamic menu now.
And the the reason I know that is because
our menu structure is not the same
as up here, so we have home and resources,
down here we have home and blog.
If I go back to menus, and
I swap those, hit Save,
Refresh, Home, Resources, Blog,
Contact, and then Sign up now!
Now one thing is,
the Sign up now used to be red, and
that's because it had a class on it.
How do you add a class to
a WordPress menu in here?
Easy peezy, pop that open, and
in here you can see there some extra
info that you can add to this link.
Now there's nothing here letting us
know that we can add a class, but
there's a secret.
Up in the top right click Screen Options,
and
you can show advanced menu properties,
and we want to check CS classes.
Now we can add CSS classes to our link,
and that was Signup-link.
Now if I save that menu, head back,
refresh, we should now have a red link.
There it is, so that is the custom menus.
You can register as
many menus as you like.
You can put them wherever
you want in your site.
You can put them in your sidebars,
you can put them in your widgets, so,
in the last lecture we played around with
widgets, you can choose a custom menu.
So say you wanted to use your extra
side bar, you can select a menu.
So say you created sidebar menu,
your registered sidebar menu.
You added extra information in your
sidebar menu and then in here,
in your extra sidebar choose custom menu
widget, select a menu, sidebar menu, save.
You're good to go as long as
it's displaying in your theme.
Then you're good to go.
So you literally can do so
much with custom menus.
And I use it all the time in so
many of my WordPress sites.
The other thing I noticed here in
the footer before we get out of here,
is the date.
We need to make that dynamic.
So super simple, php date,
year ,echo date.
There we go.
You can have extra
information in here too.
Say I wanted extra information
in this copyright section so
I wanted the name of the blog or
the website.
Well, php, you can actually grab that
really easy using a WordPress function,
bloginfo, you know this one, just name.
That's just pulling the name of
the website, and there's one extra thing.
What if I wanted this to be dynamic
to the author of the website,
not just hard coded?
Well, php and then the_author_link.
Let's save that and see what happens.
Bootstrap to WordPress copyright 2014,
bootstrap_admin.
So here we have the author and
Bootstrap_admin doesn't look very good,
so let's change that.
Let's go back to our Dashboard real quick,
head over to Users, and
I wanna change my nickname.
Well, I'm gonna keep the nickname.
I'm actually gonna
change the display name.
That's what I wanna change.
Well, I need to fill in some information
for WordPress to have some options, so
let's go Brad Hussey.
And then I can change
the nickname to anything I want.
It gives me a bunch of options, so
I'm just going to choose Brad Hussey.
Then I'm going to update that profile and
now,
down here, you should see Bootstrap to
WordPress copyright 2014 Brad Hussey.
There we go!
And so that is how you play
around with custom menus and
then we just made the footer
just a little bit more dynamic.
Awesome and some of you might be wondering
well what if I wanted to play
around with some drop down menus?
I wanted to do drop down
menus within WordPress.
Well you can actually do and
that is going to be a lecture.
It's just going to be
a future bonus lecture.
So stay tuned for that.
In the next lecture we're going to do
something important that a lot of people
overlook and that is the 404 page.
Oh broken, looks bad.
This isn't a good page.
This is a good reason why someone
will leave my site and not come back.
So we need to fix this, and
we're gonna fix that in the next lecture.
See you there.
[MUSIC]